BitTorrent is a protocol for distributing files across multiple interconnected computers called peers.
Peers connect to other peers to download pieces of files which makes it a p2p protocol.

BitTorrent's p2p protocol operates over TCP or uTP.

Peer connections are symmetrical. Message sent in both directions look the same, and data can flow in either direction.

The peer protocol refers to pieces of the fie by index as described in the*metainfo* file, starting at zero. When a peer finishes downloading a piece and checks that the hash matches, it announces that it has that piece to all of its peers.

Connections contain two bits of state on either end: **choked** or not , and **interested** or not. 
Choking is notification that no data  will be sent until unchoking happens. 

Data transfers when one side it interested and the other side is choking. Interest state must be kept up to date at all times - whenever a downloader doesn't have something they currently would ask a peer for in unchoked, they must express lack of interest, despite being choked. Implementing this properly is tricky, but makes it possible for downloaders to know which peers will start downloading immediately if unchoked.

Connections start out choked and not interested.

When data is being transferred, downloaders should keep several piece requests queued up at once in order to get good TCP performance (this is called pipelining). On the other side, requests which can't be written out to the TCP bufer immediately should be queued up in memory rather than kept in an application-level  network buffer, so they can all be thrown out when a choke happens.

The peer wire protocol consists of a handshake followed by a never-ending stream of length-prefixed messages. The handshake starts with character ninteen (decimal) followed by the string 'BitTorrent protocol'. The leading character is a length prefix, put there in the hope that other new protocols may do the same and thus be trivially distinguishable from each other.
### Entities
A BitTorrent file distribution consists of these entities.
1. An ordinary web server
2. A static *metainfo* fiie
3. A BitTorrent tracker
4. An *original* downloader
5. The end user web browser
6. The end user downloaders

### Serving steps
1. Start running a tracker (or, more likely, have one running already).
2. Start running an ordinary web server, such as apache, or have one already.
3. Associate the extension .torrent with mimetype application/x-bittorrent on their web server (or have done so already).
4. Generate a *metainfo* (.torrent) file using the complete file to be served and the URL of the tracker.
5. Put the *metainfo* file on the web server.
6. Link to the metainfo (.torrent) file from some other web pages.
7. Start a downloader which already has the complete file (the *origin*).
