## Characteristics

- It's a compiler language.
- It has the simple syntax like python to manage very large projects.
- It is very fast, in comparable with C++, therefore has fast build and run time.
- It is very resource efficient.
- It is used to build backend or server side applications not the client application and CLI applications if needed.

## Setup

We need Go compiler and an IDE to learn and build application with Go.
- Go distribution actually comes with a Go CLI tool.
- Use vscode as the IDE.

### Go installation

Follow the Go official page for Go distribution and installation Instruction.

For Linux, to add the Go path globally to persist permanently, follow [[Instructions#Adding PATH variable|this]].

Confirm the proper installation:
```bash
go version
go version go1.21.5 linux/amd64
```

In Go only go modules can use other go modules, therefore, every project has to be initialized as a go module to use other modules via;
```bash
go mod init <module path>
```
This will create a *go.mod* file that tracks the modules that provide those packages. That *go.mod* file stays with your code, including in your source code repository.

## Go usage instructions

### Multiple files in the package

In Go, if you define something or import something and not use it, you will get error.

When there are many files in the current package, we need to specify every file when we run the application.

- booking-app
	- main.go (under main package)
	- helper.go (under main package)

To run the main method in the `main.go` file which uses the functions in the `helper.go` file;
```bash
go run .
```
which specifies to use the current directory to  run.

### Multiple Packages in the application

When we create multiple packages, we should create folders for that and put the files for that package in that folder.

Now to use the functions from other packages, we need to explicitly import the package. 

```bash
booking-app
|--- helper
|		|--- helper.go (under helper package)
|
|--- main.go (under main package)
```

go.mod
```mod
module booking-app

go 1.21.5
```
`module booking-app` specifies not just the module name but also the import path for all our packages in out `booking-app` application.

main.go
```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"string"
	"booking-app/helper"
)

func main() {
	// code to execute
	helper.ValidateUseerInput(firstName, lastName, emaiil, uerTickets)
	// code to execute
}
```
To the function `validateInput()` from the helper package, the function need to be exported from the `helper` package.

Capitalizing the function name will export the function to be used in other packages with import statement. With the same concept, not just functions but variables can also be exported.





