Have to initialize a directory as go project or module to use the go modules.

```bash
go mod init <module path>
```
- Creates a new module.
- Module path can be correspond to a repository you plan to publish your module to (e.g. github.com/kabilanma/booking-app)

Here we will use the local project directory as the repository.
```bash
go mod init booking-app
```
This command do the following:
	- Initialized a go.mod file.

- Describe the module : **with name/module path** and **go version** used in the program.
- The module path is also the **import path**
	(e.g. import "github.com/kabilanma/booking-app")

All our code must belong to a package and we need to import other packages to use.
A package is a collection of source files.

main.go
```go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
	fmt.Println("Hello World!")
}
```

- Our application belongs to the package `main`.
- `Print` belong to a built-in go package `fmt` (Format Package).
- `func main()` is the entry point of the application and there can only be one such function for the project.

To compile and run the application
```bash
go run <file name>
```
Run main.go:
```bash
go run main.go
```

## Variables

Used to store variables. Go is a statically typed language.
```go
var conferenceName = "Go Conference"
```
Can't assign another data type to the `conferenceName` after assigning the first value, because Go is strictly typed.

```go
const conferenceTicker = 50
```
`const` value cannot be changed.

## In-built functions
- `Println()` : From `fmt` package. Create newline after printing.
- `Printf()` : From `fmt` package. Create formatted string printing.
- `Fields()` : From `strings` package. It splits the with white space as separator.
	"Kabilan Mahathevan" -> ["Kabilan", "Mahahevan"]
```go
strings.Fields("Kabilan Mahathevan")
```
- `Sleep()` : From `time` package. It stops or blocks the current thread (**goroutine**) execution for the defined duration.
## Data Types
When we define the variable, we don't specify the data type in Go, instead it takes the data types of the first assigned value. But if the variable definition and initialization is in separate lines, variable definition should include data type definition explicitly.

```go
var userName string
userName = "kabilan"
fmt.Printf("userName Data Type is: %T", userName)
```
Some variables like integer has different Go data types which specifies the bits being used to represent the type. (e.g., int, uint8, uint16, uint32, uint64, int8, int16, int32, int64)
1. uint8 : Unsigned 8-bit integers (o to 255)
2. uint16 : Unsigned 16-bit integers (0 to 65535)
3. uint32 : Unsigned 32-bit integers (0 to 4294967295)
4. uint64 : Unsigned 64-bit integers (0 to 18446744073709551615)
5. int8 : Signed 8-bit integers (-128 to 127)
6. int16 : Signed 16-bit integers 
7. int32: Signed 32-bit integers
8. int64: Signed 64-bit integers

```go
const conferenceTickets uint16 = 50
```

Each data types can do different things and behave differently.

### Arrays

Arrays in Golang are of fixed size.
```go
var bookings = [50]string{"Kabilan", "Chei"}
// or
var bookings = [50]string{} // empty initial array
// or
var bookings [50]string
bookings = {"Kabilan", "Chei"}

len(bookings) // give the size of the array
```

### Slices
- Slice is an abstraction of an **Array**.
- Slices are more flexible and powerful:
	**Variable-length** or get an sub-array of its own
- Slices are also index-based and have a size, but is resized when needed.

```go
var bookings []string
bookings = append(bookings, firstName+" "+lastName)
```

### Map
Go provides a built-in **map** type that implements a hash table. This maps unique **keys** to **values** and can retrieve the value by using its key later. 

```go
var bookings = make([]map[string]string, 5) // initial size of the slice is set to 5.
											// This creates a list of maps.
...

var userData = make(map[string]string)
userData["firstName"] = firstName
userData["lastName"] = lastName
userData["email"] = email
userData["numberOfTickets"] = strconv.FormatUint(uint64(userTickets), 10)

bookings = append(bookings, userData)
```
All **keys** have the **same data type** and all **values** have the **same data type**.

### Struct
We may need to collect different data types of data.
Struct let's define key value pair that can hold mixed data types.

```go
type UserData struct {
	firstName string
	lastName string
	email string
	numberOfTickets uint
}
```
The **type** keyword creates a **new custom type**, with the name (**UserData**) we specify.

```go
var bookings = make([]UserData, 5) // initial size set to 5

...

var userData = UserData {
	firstName: firstName,
	lastName: lastName,
	email: email,
	numberOfTickets: userTickets,
}

bookings = append(bookings, userData)

...

fmt.Printf("First user data's firstname: %v", bookings[0].firstName)
```

#### Anonymous Struct

```go
myCar := struct {
  Make string
  Model string
} {
  Make: "tesla",
  Model: "model 3",
}
```

This creates a struct type and initialize a variable with it but, since the struct is not named, it cannot be reused.
#### Nested Struct
```go
type car struct {
  Make string
  Model string
  Height int
  Width int
  // Wheel is a field containing an anonymous struct
  Wheel struct {
    Radius int
    Material string
  }
}

myCar := car{}
myCar.FrontWheel.Radius = 5

fmt.Println("Wheel Radius: %v\n", myCar.Wheel.Radius)
```

#### Embedded Struct

An embedded struct's fields are accessed at the top level, unlike nested structs.
Go is not an [object-oriented](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming) language. However, embedded structs provide a kind of _data-only_ inheritance that can be useful at times.

```go
type car struct {
  make string
  model string
}

type truck struct {
  // "car" is embedded, so the definition of a
  // "truck" now also additionally contains all
  // of the fields of the car struct
  car
  bedSize int
}

lanesTruck := truck{
  bedSize: 10,
  car: car{
    make: "toyota",
    model: "camry",
  },
}

fmt.Println(lanesTruck.bedSize)

// embedded fields promoted to the top-level
// instead of lanesTruck.car.make
fmt.Println(lanesTruck.make)
fmt.Println(lanesTruck.model)
```
### Rune
- Rune is a Unicode code point, under the hood it's an alias for int32.

## Loops

### For-loops

1. Indefinite for loop
```go
for {
	// statements...
}
```
This will run the code in the `for` block indefinitely.

2. For loops as while Loop.
```go
for condition {
 // statements...
}
```
This loops is executed until the given condition is true.

3. Simple For Loop
```go
for initialization; condition; post{
	// statements...
}
```

4. For Loops with range
```go
for index, element := range rvariable {
	// statements
}
```
- Range iterates over elements for different data structures (so not only arrays and slices).
- For arrays and slices, range provides the index and value for each element.
- Here, if we don't want to use the `index` variable, assign the variable name as `-`, meaning not needed variable. This ignore not being used error.

## If Else condition

### Conditionals
Expressions that evaluate to either **true** or **false**.

1. `==` : Compares two things
2. `!=` : Not Equal
3. `<` : Less than
4. `<=` : Less than or equal to
5. `>` : Greater than
6. `>=` : Greater than or equal to

```go
if condition {
	// code to be executed if condition is true
} else {
	// code to be executed if condition is false
}
```


## Switch Statement

```go
city : "London" // user input

switch city {
	case "New York":
		// execute code for booking New York conference tickets
	case "Singapore":
		// execute code for booking Singapore conference tickets
	case "London", "Berlin":
		// execute for code for booking London or Berlin conference tickets
	default:
		fmt.Println("No valid city selected")
}
```

## Functions

- Encapsulate code into own container (= function). Which logically belong together.
- Like variable name, you should give a function a **descriptive name**.
- Call the function by its name, whenever you want to execute the function code block.
```go
func greetUsers(conferenceName string) {
	fmt.Printf("Welcome to %v booking application", conferenceName)
}
```
- A function can return data as a result.
```go
func add(number1 int, number2 int) int {
	return (number1 + number2)
}
```

### Struct Function

We can define a function on a struct type.
```go
type rect struct {
	width int
	height int
}

// area has a receiver of (r rect)
func (r rect) int {
	return r.width * r.height
}

r := rect{
	width: 5,
	height: 10,
}

fmt.Println(r.area())
```

## Interfaces

An _interface type_ is defined as a set of method signatures.
A value of interface type can hold any value that implements those methods.

```go
type shape interface {
  area() float64
  perimeter() float64
}

type rect struct {
    width, height float64
}
func (r rect) area() float64 {
    return r.width * r.height
}
func (r rect) perimeter() float64 {
    return 2*r.width + 2*r.height
}

type circle struct {
    radius float64
}
func (c circle) area() float64 {
    return math.Pi * c.radius * c.radius
}
func (c circle) perimeter() float64 {
    return 2 * math.Pi * c.radius
}
```

## Package Level Variables
- These are defined at the top outside all functions
```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"string"
)

var conferenceName = "Go conference"
const conferenceTickets = 50
var remainingTickets uint = 50
var bookings = []strings{}

func main() {
	// main code to execute
}
```

- Now these variables are not just in the scope of the `main` function but in the scope of the package, i.e., can be accessed from anywhere in the package.
- Package level variable cannot be created like this;
	`bookings := []string{}` (Cannot use `:=`)

## Scope
There are 3 level of scopes
- Local
- Package
- Global

### Local Scope
- Declaration **within function**: can only be used within that function.
- Declaration **within block**: can only be used within that block. e.g., for, if-else blocks

### Package Scope
- Declaration **outside all functions**: can be used everywhere in the same package.

### Global Scope
- Declaration **outside all functions** & **uppercase first letter**: can be used everywhere across all packages.

## Goroutine

- Goroutine in golang is the execution thread.
- **go** keyword starts a new goroutine.
- A goroutine is a lightweight thread managed by the Go routine.
- By default, the main goroutine does not wait for other goroutines.

### Waitgroup
- Waits for the launched goroutine to finish.
- Package *sync* provides basic synchronization functionality.
- Waitgroup has 3 functions.
	1. `Add` : Set the number of goroutine to wait for (increases the counter by the provided number)
	2. `Wait` : Blocks until the WaitGroup counter is 0
	3. `Done` : Decrements the WaitGroup counter by 1. So this is calld by the goroutine to indicate that it's finished.

### Concurrency comparison to other languages
In other languages:
	- Writing concurrent code is more complex.
	- More overhead.
	- Creating threads are more expensive, slow startup time.
	- Heavyweight and needs more hardware resources.

In Golang:
	- Go is using, what's called a **Green thread**. This is an abstraction of the actual OS thread which we call **Goroutine**.
	- This is managed by the go runtime, we are only interacting with these high level goroutines.
	- This is cheaper and lightweight, therefore can run hundreds of thousands or millions goroutines without affecting the performance.
	- There is built-in functionality called **Channels** for goroutines to talk with one another.

## Channels

> _Channels_ are the pipes that connect concurrent goroutines.

We can send values into channels from one goroutine and receive those values into another goroutine.
Channels are typed by the values they convey.

```go
var c = make(chan int)
c <- 1
i := <-c
fmt.Println(i)
```
This will deadlock the program, because when we sends a value into the channel in the line `2`, it will wait for a receiver to receive, so doesn't move further. Go runtime notices this and throws a **deadlock** error.
If we don't specify channel can store only one value.
#### Buffer Channel
We can have a channel that can store multiple values, but we have to define it  in the channel definition:
```go
var c = make(chan int, 5)
```
- This creates a **Buffer Channel** that can store up to 5 integer values.

