#### Basics of Database

- A database is a collection of interrelated data.
- A Database Management System (DBMS) consists of a database and a set of programs (software) designed for __accessing__, __maintaining__ and utilizing database.
- There are 3 level of abstraction in DBMS:
	1. Physical Level
	2. Logical Level
	3. View Level

#### Data Model
- A collection of tools for describing; __data , data relationships, data semantics, consistency constraints__.
- Widely used data models:
	- Relational Model
		- Uses a collection of tables to represent both data and the relationships among those data.
	- The Entity-Relationship (E-R) Model
		- E-R model is based on a perception of a real world that consists of a collection of basic objects, called __entities__, and of relationships among these objects.
	- Object-Based Model
		- Use concepts of __Object Orientation__ together with E-R model or relational model.
	- Semi-structured Data Model
		- This model permits individual data items of the same type to have different sets of attributes (implemented using XML)
	
##### Relational Algebra
- __6__ fundamental operations (select, project, union, set difference, Cartesian product, rename)
- Additional operations (set intersection, natural join, division, assignment)
- Extended relational algebra operations (generalized projection, aggregate functions, outer-join)

### Indexing and Hashing

#### Basic Concepts

- Indexing mechanisms are used to speed up access to desired data.
- It involves creating a data structure, typically a __B-tree__ or __hash table__, that organizes the values of one or more columns in a table for quick lookup.
- __Search Key__ : is an attribute or a set of attributes used to look up records in a file.
- An __index file__ consists of records (called __index entries__) of the form

			| search-key | pointer |
		    |____________|_________|
	- Index files are typically much smaller than the original file.

- Two basic kinds of indices:
	- __Ordered indices__ : search keys are stored in sorted order
	- __Hash indices__ : search keys are distributed uniformly across "buckets" using a "hash function".

#### Index Evaluation Metrics
- Access types supported efficiently.
- Access time.
- Deletion time.
- Space overhead.

#### Ordered Indices (Single-level Indexing)
- Index entries are stored __sorted__ on the __search key value__.

##### Primary Index
- Defined mainly on the primary key of the data-file, in which the data-file is already ordered based on the __primary key__.
- It has __fixed length__ of __two fields__; one indicates the __primary key__ of the data file in an ordered manner, second indicates the __pointer__ to the data block where a record containing the key is available.
- There exists a record in the __primary index file__ for every block of the data-file.
- Index entry is created only for the first record of the each block, which we call __Anchor record__ or __Block anchor__.
- The average number of block using the Primary index is = log_{2} B + 1, where B is the number of index blocks.

##### Secondary Index
- An index whose search key specifies an order different from the sequential order of the file.
- Also called non-clustering index.

__Dense Index__ : Index record appears for every search-key value in the file.
__Sparse Index__ : Contains index records for only some search-key values.
				Applicable when records are sequentially ordered on search-key.

- Compared to Dense indices, Sparse indices;
		- Less space and less maintenance overhead for insertions and deletions.
		- Generally slower than dense index for locating records.

#### Hash Indexing (Multi-level Indexing)

- If primary index does not fit in memory, access becomes expensive.
- __Solution__ : Treat primary index on disk as a sequential file and construct a sparse index on it.
		- Outer Index : A sparse index of primary index
		- Inner Index : The primary index file
- If even outer index is too large to fit in main memory, yet another level of index can be created, and so on.
- Indices at all levels must be updated on insertion or deletion from the file.