> A **pointer** is just the address of a piece of data in memory.

Where pointers are used:
1. Instead of passing around a whole copy of the data, you can just pass a pointer.
2. You might want two pieces of code to work on the same piece of data rather than a separate copy.

## Using Memory Pointers

On **32-bit operating system**, a pointer takes **4 bytes** of memory and on **64-bit operating system**, a pointer takes **8 bytes**.

1. Getting the address of a variable.

```c
int x = 4;
printf("x lives at %p\n", &x);
```
use `%p` format for printing out the location in hexadecimal format.
`&x` will find the address of the variable `x`.
So once we get the address of the variable, we might want to store it somewhere. To do that, we will need a **pointer variable**.
A **pointer variable** is just a variable that stores a memory address. When we declare a pointer variable, we need to say what kind of data is stored at the address it will point to.

```c
int *address_of_x = &x;
```

2. Read the contents of an address.

When we have a memory address, we will want to read the data that's stored there. We can do that with `*` operator.

```c
int value_stored = *address_of_x;
```
The `*` and `&` operators are opposites.

`&` : Takes a piece of data and tell where it's stored.
`*` : Takes an address and tells what's stored in that address.

3. Change the contents of an address.

We can change the value stored in a address using `*`.
```c
*address_of_x = 99;
```

-----------------------------------------------
### Array variables
When we create an array, the array variable can be used as a **pointer** to the start of the array in memory.

When we define an array like this;
```c
char quote[] = "Cookies make you fat";
```
<sub>- We can define an array, without the size but it has to be initialize directly.</sub>
The computer will set aside space on the stack for each of the characters in the string, plus the `\0` end character.
But it also associate the **address of the first character** with thee `quote` variable. 
Every time the quote variable is used in he code, the computer will substitute it with the address of the first character in the string.

- The `sizeof` operator returns the space taken by a piece of data.
	- `sizeof` is not a function, it's an **operator**.

#### Difference between Array and Pointer

1. `sizeof(an array)` is the size of the array.

`sizeof(a pointer)` returns 8 for 64-bit OS, but `sizeof(an array)` will return **how big the array is in memory**.

2. The address of an array, is the address of the array.

If we use `&` operator on an array variable, the result equals the array variable itself. i.e., `&s == s` is **true** for array but `&t == t` is **false**.

3. An array variable can't point anywhere else.

When we create a pointer variable, the machine will allocate 4 or 8 bytes of space to store it. But if
you create an array? The computer will allocate space
to store the array, but it won’t allocate any memory to
store the array variable. The compiler simply plugs in
the address of the start of the array.
But because array variables don’t have allocated
storage, it means you can’t point them at anything else.


------------------------------------------
## Computer Memory
Every C program has different sections in memory;
- Stack
- Heap
- Globals
- Constants
- Code

If you declare a variable inside a function, the computer will store it in a section of memory called the **stack**. 
If a variable is declared outside any function, it will be stored in the **globals** section of memory.

