
1. What is a Database?

A database is an organized, consistent, and logical collection of data that can easily be updated, accessed, and managed.

2. Mention the issues with traditional file-based systems that make DBMS a better choice?

- Absence of indexing
- Redundancy
- Can lead to inconsistency.
- Accessing is harder because the data is unorganized in them.
- Lack of concurrency control.
- ACID property.

4. Explain different languages present in DBMS?

- DDL(Data Definition Language) : It contain commands which are required to define the database.
  Eg: CREATE, ALTER, DROP, TRUNCATE, RENAME, etc.
- DML(Data Manipulation Language) : It contains commands which are required to manipulate the data present in the database.
  Eg: SELECT, UPDATE, INERT, DELETE, etc.
  - DCL(Data Control Language) : It contains commands which are required to deal with the transaction of the database.
  Eg: GRANT and REVOKE
  - TCL(Transaction Control Language) : It contains commands which are required to deal with the transaction of the database.

5. What is meant by ACID properties in DBMS?

ACID stands for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability.

**Atomicity** : This property reflects the concept of either executing the whole query or executing nothing at all, which implies that if an update occurs in a database then that update should either be reflected in the whole database or should not be reflected at all.

**Consistency** : This property ensures that the data remains consistent before and after a transaction in a database.

**Isolation** : This property ensures that each transaction is occurring independently of the others. This implies that the state of an ongoing transaction doesn't affect the state of another ongoing transaction.

**Durability** : This property ensures that the data is not lost in cases of a system failure or restart and is present in the same state as it was before the system failure or restart.

6. Explain different levels of data abstraction in a DBMS.

The process of hiding irrelevant details from users is known as data abstraction. Data abstraction can be divided into 3 levels:

- **Physical Level** : It is the lowest level and is managed by DBMS. This level consists of data storage descriptions and the details of this level are typically hidden from system admins, developers, and users.
- **Conceptual or Logical Level** : It is the level on which developers and system admins work and it determines what data is stored in the database and what is the relationship between the data points.
- **External or View Level** : It is the level that describes only part of the database and hides the details of the table schema and its physical storage from the users.



7. Explain the difference between the DELETE and TRUNCATE command in a DBMS.

DELETE command is needed to delete rows from a table based on the condition provided by the WHERE clause and can be rolled back if required. Since it keeps a log to lock the row of the table before deleting it and hence it's slow.

TRUNCATE command is needed to remove complete data from a table in a database. It is like a DELETE command which has no WHERE clause and it can't be rolled back even if required. Fast since it doesn't maintain a log.

8. What is a lock? Explain the major difference between a shared lock and an exclusive lock during a transaction in a database.

**Shared Lock** : Allow multiple transactions to read the data items in a shared lock.
**Exclusive Lock** : Gives exclusive access to any transaction that is about to perform a write operation.

9. What is meant by Normalization and Denormalization?

**Normalization** : Is a process of reducing redundancy by organizing the data into multiple tables. Normalization leads to better usage of disk spaces and makes it easier to maintain the integrity of the database.

**Denormalization** : Is the reverse process of normalization as it combines the table with have been normalized into a single table so that data retrieval becomes faster. JOIN operation allows us to create a denormalized form of the data by reversing the normalization.

10. What do you mean by functional dependency?
Functional dependency or database dependency determine the dependence of one attribute to another. It is denoted by X -> Y, which means that Y is functionally dependent on X. There should be only on corresponding combination of values fro Y for each unique values of X.

11. What do you mean by transitive dependency?
A situation where a non-prime attribute in a relation (table) is functionally dependent on another non-prime attribute, rather than directly on the primary key.


12. Explain different types of Normalization forms in a DBMS.

1. 1st Normal Form:
A table to be in 1NF should satisfy the following conditions.
- Every column must have a single value and should be atomic.
- Duplicate columns from the same table should be removed.

2. 2nd Normal Form
A table to be in 2NF should satisfy the following conditions.
- The table should be in its 1NF.
- Every non-prime attribute of the table should be fully functionally dependent on the primary key.  (No partial dependency). This ensures that non-prime attributes are fully dependent on the entire primary key.

Eg: Here `(StudentID, CourseID)` is the composite primary key.
```SQL
Student_Course (StudentID, CourseID, Instructor)
```
This is not in 2NF because, non-prime attribute `Instructor` is depended on the part of the primary key not the entire primary key.
```sql
Student (StudentID, ...)
Course (CourseID, Instructor, ...)
```

3. 3rd Normal Form
A table to be in 3NF should satisfy the following conditions.
- It must be in 2NF.
- No transitive dependency. There should be no non-prime attribute functionally dependent on another non-prime attribute, rather than directly on the primary key.

Eg: Here `(StudentID, CourseID)` is a composite primary key (a candidate key).
```sql
Student_Course_Department (StudentID, CourseID, Department, Instructor)
```
This is not in 3NF because, `Instructor->Department`. This is a transitive dependency.

4. Boyce-Codd Normal Form (BCNF)
A table to be in BCNF should satisfy the following conditions.
- The table should be in its 3NF.
- For every functional dependency of any attribute A on B (A->B), A should be the super key of the table. It simply implies that A can't be a non-prime attribute if B is a prime attribute.

13. What is the difference between Hash join and Merge join?
- **Hash Join** : A hash join is used to join large tables.
- **Merge Join** : A merge join is used to join two input streams of the joined tables into a single output stream.

14. Explain different types of keys in a database.
- **Candidate Key**: The candidate key represents a set of properties that can uniquely identify a table. Each table may have multiple candidate keys.
- **Super Key** : The super key defines a set of attributes that can uniquely identify a tuple. Candidate key and primary key are subsets of the super key.
- **Primary Key** : The primary key defines a set of attributes that are used uniquely identify every tuple.
- **Foreign Key** : The foreign key defines an attributes that can only take the values present in one table common to the attribute present in another table.

15. If an attribute doesn't have any value, would you assign it a blank space, a ZERO or a NULL value?
- All attributes that are unavailable, unknown, or have no assigned values fall under the NULL category. Whereas both ZERO represents an integer or BLANK represents an empty String value.

16.  How do you know which database model to choose while creating a database?
This depends entirely on the purpose of the database, as each model has its own strengths.
For example, if you want to use atomic data, a relational model works best.  If you want to use text or semi-structured, the document model works best.

